# Question composition
**Question word + Auxialliary Verb + Subject + Main Verb**

## Question words:
- what
- who
- when
- where
- why
- how
- which

## Auxialliary verbs:
- am/is/are - were
- have/has - had
- do/does - did
- canc - could
- will - would

## Subject:
- I/you/he/she/it/we/they
- mine/yours/his/her/its/ours/theirs

## Main verbs:
- base form
- ing form
- past participle

-----------

**N.B.**
- **Who** doesn't need the auxialliary verb.
    - Ex: _who wrote this book?_


# Direct and Indirect Questions
## Direct questions:
- Ex:
    - _what time is it?_

## Indirect questions:
- Ex:
    - _could you tell me what time it is?_ (il soggeto "it" è messo prima del verbo "is", "it is?")

N.B.

<!-- - _who painted the walls?_ -->
<!-- - Ex: _who the walls were painted by?_ -->

## Exercise a.
1. Should i tell her how i feel?
2. How long have your best friend known you?
3. Coult you tell me when the next train leaves?
4. What are you thinking about?
5. What do you like doing at weekend?
6. What kind of music does Jane like listening to?
7. Do you know what time the film finishes?
8. How many studens came to class yesterday?
9. Do you remember where the restaurant is?
10. Who does the housework in your family?

## Exercise b.
1. How ofted do you usually do exercise?
2. Who wrote Oliver Twist? 
3. Could you tell me how much does this book cost?
4. I can't remember i parked my car this morning.
5. Did you enjoy your trip to Paris last weekend?
6. What kind of work does your sister do?
7. Who ate the last biscuit?
8. Do you know what time do the swimming pool open on Saturday?
9. Why does your sister don't like the present you gave her?
10. Do you have to play your music so loud? I can't concentrate.